This is one of multiple Ethernet troubleshooting videos in this topology we've been told that to write
a one on the top left is not able to ping some of the other routers in the topology so let's verify
that en route to one.
Show IP interface brief IP address of broader one is tendered wondered wondered one router two's IP
address is ten dot one that one dot to so from right a one can be ping wrote it to pings of failing
let's confirm the IP address information to show IP interface gigabit 0 0 IP addresses 10 1 1 2 slash
24.
Let's do the same over here.
Make sure that the subnet mask is correct IP addresses 10 1 1 1 slash 24 the site it's 10 1 1 2 slash
24.
So that looks good doesn't look like they'll be any other reason why we can't ping to write it to what
we'll do and write a 1 is to a debug IP packet.
Be careful doing these commands in the real world.
You may have to use an access list on that debug.
Otherwise you could kill your Radha with the amount of output that's generated.
Okay so we see messages such as sending full packet.
So it looks like right one is forwarding the packet out of the ether net interface onto the network
debug IP packet on the site what I'll do now is repeat 1 ping only so only send one packet onto the
network.
It doesn't look like anything's arriving on the site.
If you can use wire shock to help you capture traffic something to capture traffic between the switch
and write it to and I'll do that ping again
but I don't see any ICMP traffic in why shock
we see spanning tree information.
But we don't see any other information in why shock we see for instance a loop from a device to this
MAC address we see some spanning tree.
We don't see any other traffic
so let's see if the traffic is actually getting to the switch we'll do that ping again.
Okay so there's the ICMP message sent from Route 1 2 road to the fact that we see ICMP means that the
rotor has learnt the MAC address of rather to source MAC addresses zeroes ending in one destination
MAC address is zeroes ending in a two so it looks like OP worked but the pings are failing let's confirm
the MAC address on router 1 MAC address is set to this point in mac addresses this but to the MAC address
is being changed to that value.
What about on write it to MAC addresses this burnt in mac addresses that so it looks like the traffic
from right of one to write it to get sent on this link but doesn't arrive according to what I'll do
is do a broadcast again you need to be careful with doing this kind of stuff in the real world.
Because this is a lab I'm going to show you various options so notice when I send a broadcast traffic
it does arrive at RADA too.
So let me on all that and only do a debug IP ICMP not a debug package because that generates a lot of
traffic on all over here.
In other words turn off all debugging and only send one broadcast so the broadcast gets to write it
to so here we go to reply to the broadcast it looks like but it doesn't look like uni cost traffic works
in the network so broadcast is sent it gets to write it too but a unit cost doesn't seem to get to write
it too.
So let's have a look at that switch and see if there's a problem on the switch on the switch.
Show MAC address table.
Okay.
Can you see a problem in the output.
What looks wrong in this output
notice here we've got a static MAC address for MAC address to going out of gigabit 2 and kick in 3.
But switch to show interface gigabit 0 shows us that has a mac address of 2.
So this static MAC addresses a problem show run point include Mac we've got to this entry in the running
config which shouldn't be there.
So no not paste that in so no mac address show MAC address table.
Now we only have a dynamic MAC addresses.
I'll do it ping from right I want to write it to that succeeds now because the MAC address has been
learnt properly.
Be careful with static MAC addresses in your mac address table that will override your dynamic entries
and could send traffic to the wrong port in your topology okay.
So can we ping routers 3 which has an IP address of 10 1 1 3.
No we can't show IP interface gigabit.
0 0.
So this is the IP address of rather 3 debug IP ICMP let's do a ping again.
It doesn't look like the traffic's arriving a drought a 3.
Let's have a look at the MAC address table.
I don't see a MAC address for RADA 3.
Let's Payne wrote a one from rather three.
Look at this output and see if you see a problem so show MAC address table showed us previously that
this MAC address ending in one was connected to gigabit to 0 0 on the switch.
In other words over here but now it looks like that MAC addresses on gigabit 0 to this port here.
So do ping from rudder one again and let's have a look at the MAC address table.
Notice that MAC address is now shown on gigabit 00 ping is finished.
So let's do a ping from the side.
Notice the MAC address has moved to gigabit 0 2.
So we're getting MAC addresses flipping on the switch.
Let's confirm that the MAC addresses on these routers so show interface gigabit.
0 0 that's the MAC address of Rada 1.
What does it look like on router 3.
So show interface gigabit.
0 0.
This is the Rogers interface.
Notice the MAC address.
The Rogers have duplicate MAC addresses.
That's not gonna work in an Ethan Ed environment.
So let's configure the MAC address as follows.
And let's see if a one can ping write a three Now noticed the ping succeeds and that's because the devices
have different MAC addresses now available on different ports.
Which is correct per our diagram Ethernet breaks.
If you have the same MAC addresses on the same layer to segment MAC addresses are meant to be unique
but in the real world you can encounter duplicate MAC addresses.
Check your mac address tables to see if MAC addresses of flipping from one port to another.
Hope you enjoyed to this video.
If it's been of benefit to you please like it.
And please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.